I know you guys got a lot
of awesome games out there,
and I want to help you by showing
you how to add multiplayer to
your gaming using Game Center.
So first of all, what is multi-player?
Well, you can play with others
over the networks.
These can be your friends,
and these can be people
you never met before.
Multi-player works on
both Wi-Fi and cellular,
so there's no limits to when
you can do multi-player.
This is a great opportunity
for social gaming.
You can foster competition
among your players and have them
engaged for long periods of time.
This also increases the impact
of leaderboards and achievements.
If I'm playing a single-player game
and I'm off in the corner there,
and I get a little achievement against
killing some robot or something,
so what?
But if I'm playing tennis and
I ace the guy across the hall
and I get the high score,
I'm going to go, "Yeah,
look at that leaderboard.
Look at that achievement I got.
I got 10 aces against
you in that game." Now,
that's awesome.
That gets your players engaged.
Makes it much more fun.
Now, why add multiplayer?
Well,
the number one reason you want to add
multiplayer is this little message.
This is from Notification Center.
If I own this game and you don't,
and they swipe that,
they're going to go right to the
store and they can buy your game.
So you get free viral
marketing right there.
It's easy and it's free.
This will also make your game stand out.
People love to play
against real opponents.
Now, if you play that bot, you know,
three or four times,
you're going to figure it out.
But if you're playing
that guy across the hall,
they're going to keep coming up
with new ways to try to beat you.
And it'll just go on and on.
Also, if your spouse or significant
other loves to play games,
maybe your game can let
them play cooperatively.
She also mentioned that many of
the top games on the App Store,
if you go to the top 20 today,
I bet you you're going to find
a significant number that have
a major multi-player component.
And if you go to any website for gaming,
and there's a really popular
game that they're talking about,
the game doesn't support multi-player.
You can bet their
player is asking for it,
going, "When are you going to do
multi-player?" or even debates about it.
but it's a big deal for games.
This will also increase
the longevity of your game.
I mean, most of our games are 5, 10,
maybe even 30 hours.
But once I finish that
single-player campaign,
I'm just going to go on
and play the next one.
But if your single-player campaign
is awesome and I can get all
my buddies in the hall of my
office to come and play with me,
we're going to be playing
your game for the next year,
and don't you want that?
I I do if I'm developing a game.
And this gives your game
a chance for immortality.
If you look back over
the history of gaming,
the last 10 or 20 years,
think about the great gaming franchises.
Heck, think about the great gaming
franchises today that are talked about.
They use multiplayer.
So what you're going to learn today is
how to add multiplayer to your game.
We're going to talk about the
matchmaking UI that we provide.
We're going to talk about how you
can do programmatic auto-matching.
We're going to talk about peer-to-peer
communication and the best practices.
We're going to tell you how
we can help you if you want to
host your own game on a server.
We're going to tell you
how to set up voice chat.
And we're going to talk about some
issues you need to be aware of
relating to Game Center services.
So first of all, these are the styles of
multiplayer we support.
We support peer-to-peer,
turn-based and server-based.
In peer-to-peer, let's say you have four
players in your game.
They're each going to
have a copy of your game,
and they're going to communicate
with each other simultaneously,
or in any way you want.
In turn-based, things are more orderly.
They'll progress from this player
to that player to that player,
and so forth,
in a very well-ordered sequence.
In server-based,
you provide your own server,
you make your own rules.
So let's compare these a little bit.
Peer-to-peer supports
two to four players.
Turn-based and server-based
are both two to 16,
so they up the limit significantly.
The gameplay on peer-to-peer
and server is simultaneous.
Turn base is sequential.
Now for hosting, on peer-to-peer,
it can be hosted on one of
the devices in the game,
or it can be fully distributed.
Turn-based, by its nature,
is fully distributed.
And on the server, again,
it's all up to you.
In communications, peer-to-peer supports
point-to-point or broadcast.
Turn-base is point-to-point,
and server is, again, up to you.
Now for data transmission,
for turn-based and peer-to-peer,
we provide you APIs, so it's really easy.
It's literally you pack something
into an NSData and send.
There's nothing more to it.
On server-based, unfortunately,
you have to do a little more work,
but then you get the
benefit of the flexibility.
So let's talk about the
basic flow of multiplayer.
I've broken it into these three
categories that I kind of cutely say:
get ready, get set, go.
So in the get ready phase,
the first thing you've got
to do to make a multiplayer
game is to pick the players.
Fortunately,
we provide you two ways to do so.
You can use our UI,
or you can do it programmatically
and make an auto-match.
Either way,
you're going to get a player list.
And once you have that player list,
you wait for each of the players
to connect to your device.
And once they're connected,
you can set up your game and play.
And the way you, at that point,
all you have to do is communicate data
and observe changes in those player
state as they come and go or whatever.
So let's talk about choosing players.
We have this UI here that lets
you invite friends or auto-match.
And if you look here,
we have examples of both.
The players on the bottom
are auto-match players.
They're just filled there based
on the limits you specify.
If you click that invite button,
it'll take you to a picker
that'll let you pick your friend,
and then they'll be added to
the list like Corey is here.
Now, another important point here is
that when you implement this,
there's three entry points
you have to consider.
The most easy to understand
entry point is in-game.
You've got a button that says "Play
Multiplayer." The player presses it,
and you get the UI up.
Now, the other ways that, you know,
this UI will need to come up is,
let's say you're in Game Center,
and you navigate to your friend's game,
and you see that he's
playing Russian Bow.
Well,
there's a play button in Game Center.
If they hit play,
we will launch your app for you,
and we'll supply the
app some information,
and you have to respond
to this and put up the UI.
Similarly,
when I invite my friend on their device,
they're going to get a message,
an alert up, or a notification message.
If they swipe play,
then we will launch your game,
they will get an invite,
and they'll need to put up the UI.
So in all three,
these are three different ways in
which you'll need to put up the UI.
So I'm going to now go through a
walkthrough of what it takes to
implement multiplayer in your game.
So I've gone into the pick
players and matchmaking.
Once you have those,
you need to implement didChangeSate
and configure your communications.
And then during play,
you can send or receive data.
Before we go into that,
I want to talk about GK Local Player.
Some of you may have
heard of this before.
This represents the user on this device.
It's responsible for authentication.
It provides the list of friends.
But most importantly for multiplayer
is this invariant player ID.
This is how you're going
to associate saves,
you're going to cache data,
cache achievement progress,
record high scores.
And now with iCloud,
you're going to store
that data on the cloud.
Now, one thing I strongly recommend is
that when you store data on the cloud,
include the player ID key
in the key you pass up.
And the reason you want that is you may
have one iCloud account on your device,
but let's say you have your kids
using your device to play games.
They may have separate
Game Center accounts.
So to make sure that all works smoothly,
please use the player ID to, you know,
to make sure that all works smoothly.
please use the player
ID to store your data.
So authentication.
We strongly encourage you
to authenticate at launch.
If you don't do this,
operations may fail,
or they will fail because
they'll return errors.
Another thing to know
about authentication is
it may get called later.
So I'll tell you why that's
significant in a moment.
So to authenticate,
you construct a local player,
you call authenticate
with completion handler,
and you pass in this block.
And when it gets called,
you check to see if the local
player is authenticated.
If you do so,
you enable Game Center services.
If you don't, you disable the features.
Now, this block may get called later.
Like, for example,
if I'm playing a game with you,
and I get a phone call, well,
it's going to switch out the app,
and I'm going to, you know,
talk to my mom or something.
When I come back,
it has to re-authenticate.
So this block holds on to anything
that it's referring to for almost
the entire life of your app.
So it's...
Anything it's referring to will be
retained due to the way blocks work,
so just be aware of that and
manage your memory appropriately.
Another caution is thread safety.
Multi-player APIs may not be
called back on the main thread.
This includes delegate callbacks
and block-based callbacks.
This is because our
APIs are asynchronous.
And because of this,
you need to make sure that
you synchronize access to any
data that you're talking to,
or do a perform selector on main
thread to move control back to
your main thread based on that.
It's up to you.
So now we're going to talk about
the matchmaking UI in more detail.
So the features of the matchmaking UI,
we provide you the standard
UI that lets you invite friends
to play the game and auto-match.
But again, another really cool thing
is you can rate games right here.
So again,
another way that you can market your
game by adopting these features.
And when one player uses this UI,
if they invite someone,
the friend gets a push
notification sent to their device,
and they can accept or decline,
or they can buy the game
if they don't have it.
So now, I'm going to invite the
incomparable Jordan Ceccarelli up
to demo some of these features.
Thank you, Jordan.
Good morning, everyone.
I'm back.
If you were here for the last session,
we talked a little bit about the
single-player experience for Rochambeau,
which is this app here in the corner.
It's our demo app that we're showing
right now to show you people how
cool Game Center can be for an app.
So right now,
instead of talking about single-player,
we're going to talk about
a live multi-player game.
So we will launch the app, and-- oh,
look at that.
We've got an invite.
Let's see.
Jessica wants to play with us.
How convenient.
Jessica, if you're out there,
can you send me another one?
Didn't get that one in time.
Now one thing, you can barely hear it,
but if you listen very closely,
you can hear a custom audio sound
play when we get this invite.
Fancy.
Normally,
if you've been using Game Center,
you'll notice that we normally
play the trumpet sound,
and we're allowing you to make
a custom sound for your invite.
That's been cancelled.
All right, let's do one more.
There we go.
Nice custom sound there.
Better than the trumpets, I think.
Fits the theme of the game.
And here we are right in
the matchmaking sheet.
So Jessica has started the game with me.
And so in this case,
we want to pick rock, paper, or scissors.
And it's going to -- you know,
Jessica's going to pick,
I'm going to pick,
we'll play a game with each other.
So Jessica always picks rock.
I know this for a fact.
I've looked at the leaderboards,
and I can see that that's her trend.
So I'm going to pick paper
because I'm going to beat Jessica.
Alas,
it turns out Jessica has picked scissors,
and I have lost.
So Jessica gets the crown for this.
I'm a little bitter about that,
so I'm going to say no,
I don't want to play again.
But maybe I've come up
with a new strategy.
I've realized that there is
no way Jessica can win again.
So I'm going to play a multi-player game,
but this time I'm going
to invite Jessica.
So we'll invite a friend.
Here's our friend list.
Hey, she'll know.
She'll know what I mean.
So this is, again,
this is the matchmaking sheet.
We're waiting for
Jessica to accept the game.
And Jessica is now ready,
so we can play the game.
So for sure,
Jessica will pick rock this time.
So paper for the win.
Okay, so Jessica's picked scissors
once again and gotten the crown.
So directly beneath their choice,
we can see the time that they took.
In the event of a tie, it would just say,
"Yay, who did it faster?" So we're
not going to play again.
But instead, we're going to show another
way you can start this game.
We can swing by to the
actual Game Center client UI,
switch over to friends,
and we'll look at Jessica here,
and we have a game.
Now normally, when you hit play game,
if you're in your games,
it just launches the game,
you're good to go.
But in this case,
we're in a friend's game sheet.
So if we select play game,
it'll launch the game,
and it'll go straight
into an invite sheet,
and they'll be auto-selected
and ready to go.
What would normally happen in this case,
you can see this today,
because we ship with this functionality,
it launches a matchmaking sheet,
and that person will
already be auto-selected.
So from that point,
you just hit play game,
they immediately go into the game.
And it would look something like this.
It's basically a shorter way
to get around a live game.
We'll invite again.
See if Jessica's up for the challenge.
Third time's a charm, right?
Yes!
Alright.
All right, this time let's go rock.
Yes!
All right, this is excellent.
I have won, I get the crown,
so now I don't feel bad.
If I were to leave right now,
I could leave a victor,
even though I only won one,
but I like leaving on a high note.
So, as you can see, so this game,
when you play against the computer,
you'll play it a little bit, it's fun,
you'll eventually get bored,
but now that I'm playing with my friend
Jessica or any of my other friends,
say, in my office or my family members,
this is a game we can just keep playing,
because it's fun.
So, with that, now you know a little bit
how this game should work,
and back to you, Christy,
you can talk about all
these awesome features.
Thank you.
Thank you, Jordan.
I can't help you with the demo gods,
but I might be able to help
you with the Roshambo gods.
One little advice there,
don't announce your
move before you make it.
Can I have the slides back, please?
You don't want to stare at my iPad,
do you?
Your slide's way cooler.
Yes.
Thank you.
So now that he's showed
you how to do this,
let's show you how to implement it.
So there's several classes
involved doing the matchmaking UI.
You make this thing
called a match request.
You pass it to a
GK matchmaker view controller.
Internally, it'll use a GK matchmaker,
and this will, voila, produce a GK match.
And this match is the
thing that you'll use to,
you know, observe your state changes
and send data back and forth.
So the match is kind of what you'll live
with throughout the course of your game.
So the steps to make a match
is to make the match request,
initialize a matchmaker view
controller with that request,
show the controller.
At this point, the user can invite the
players up to max players.
Auto-match will fill in the rest,
and you get your match.
Let's talk about what this
match request is for a moment.
Well, in match request,
you can set the minimum and
maximum number of players.
You can also assign player
groups and attributes.
However,
we'll talk about those a little later.
So for now, let's just go through
a little code example.
So let's say we're talking about
two players playing together.
On the initiator side,
the initiator sets up the
match request and then passes
it to the view controller.
So here's a simple match request
that's for two to four players.
They allocate and edit
and set the properties.
Now they show the
matchmaker view controller.
So they allocate it.
Now this is important.
You need to set the matchmaker
delegate or various other callbacks
that you'll want won't happen,
and then you present it.
So there's a few outcomes that
can happen for the matchmaking UI.
You know,
the coolest one is if the user hits play,
then you'll actually get that match.
This is the function that will
give you the match that you'll use
throughout the rest of the game.
So at this point, you need to set the
match delegate to self,
and then you can set up and
get going with your game.
Now, if the user happens to hit cancel,
maybe they don't like playing
with that player because they
keep beating them or something,
then you need to clean up your state.
You know, take down the matchmaker view
controller and go back to the main menu.
Similarly, if the match fails,
let's say Jordan's inviting someone
who's driving through a tunnel
or has other networking issues,
you'll get a failure.
And you need to look at the error,
take appropriate action,
and then clean up like
you would with cancel.
Now, to handle invites,
we provide you this invite
handler block that you set.
And this is called both when
the user launches the game
from the Game Center app,
or when a user's accepted an invite.
In both cases,
you'll initialize a new matchmaker
view controller with appropriate data,
either the requests and
players or the invite info,
and then put up the UI.
So to show this,
You know,
here's your invite handler block.
It's set on the GK Matchmaker.
And by the way, the GK Matchmaker is a
shared singleton matchmaker.
You don't construct them.
You just use this one.
And there's an interesting
feature of this block.
It has two arguments.
An invite or players.
And only one of these will
be non-nil at any given time.
And you use this to dispatch.
So if you have an invite,
invite will be non-nil.
If you have players,
players will be non-nil.
So in this code here,
we go if you have an invite,
you construct the
matchmaker view controller,
init with invite, you set the delegate,
and you pose it.
In your else case, if you have players,
you construct it with the match
request that you've saved from before,
your players, delegate, pose it.
I mean, it's pretty easy.
So in summary,
you create a match request,
you present the standard UI,
you handle invites.
And by the way,
invites may be called at various times.
Let's say you're launching your
app and an invite comes in.
Well, you need to be prepared for that to
show up right after you authenticate.
So don't get your game going too
far in one way before you do this.
Also, it may get called during the game.
Let's say I'm playing
the game with Jordan,
and my other friend invites me,
and I decide, you know,
I really want to play with
this other person instead.
And I go, "Accept." Well,
the user has basically made a
decision to exit the game with Jordan,
so you have to clean up that game and
start a new one with a new player.
You just need to handle
those various times.
And also, the same UI works even if you
want to host the game yourself.
It won't do everything for you,
but will help you out.
And now I'm going to go
into programmatic automatch,
which is really easy,
but it builds on these concepts.
So in this case, you get rid of the
GK Matchmaker view controller,
and you just have the match
request and the matchmaker.
Create the match request,
you feed it to the matchmaker,
and guess what?
A GK match appears.
So show how this is done.
You basically get the shared matchmaker.
You call find match for request,
and you handle the error,
and if you don't have an
error and you get a match,
you basically are ready to play.
Now let me talk a little bit
more about this match request.
You know, I didn't talk about player
groups or attributes,
so let's do that now.
So to understand player groups,
let's assume that you have a racing game,
and you have four tracks: oval,
figure eight, curvy, and the wave.
And you want to let your players choose
which track they want to compete on.
So in this case,
they wish to do the figure eight.
Well, you make the match request.
You set the player group to figure eight,
which is an enum that you decide.
You can choose any arbitrary
numbers for this that you wish.
And it's that easy to
support different tracks.
The other ideas for group
assignment include difficulty.
If you're really not very good at a game,
or maybe you're really awesome, well,
you can segregate your players by group.
Maybe a game type like deathmatch,
capture the flag, or team fortress.
Or if your game is really sensitive to
lag and you want to minimize latency,
well, maybe you group players
from North America together,
and Europe, and Asia.
And that way, they have the best
chance to minimize ping.
And if you use player groups,
we give you an API to check
the activity on a group.
So if for some reason you make 20 groups,
But like, if one player goes into one
group that has no players,
well, you can then shift them to
another group that's more busy.
So that'll help you manage the assignment
of these groups in a dynamic way.
Now, player attributes.
This is sort of the
flip side of the coin.
Let's say I want to play on
the red team or the blue team.
I want to play in a role-playing game.
I want to play a fighter,
or I want to be the little mage.
Well, player attributes let you
do these kinds of things.
What we do is we provide you
a 32-bit unsigned integer,
and you assign that for each player,
and we OR those values
together to form a match.
Let me use an example of chess.
Well, I really love to play black,
because I like the challenge.
So my black bits are going to
be all the high order bits.
Now let's say someone else likes
to play white because they want
the advantage of a half move.
Well, in that case,
they're going to be the low-order bits.
Let's say finally, like Jordan,
he doesn't care.
He'll play anyone.
So we set all ones.
Now we OR the values of
the players together,
and if two players
OR together to form 1-1-1-1-1,
you get a match.
This is a really cool feature.
You guys can come up with really
cool things to enhance your games.
So in summary, auto-match,
you create a match request,
use player groups and
attributes as desired,
and then request the match,
wait for the players to connect,
and play.
It's that easy.
Now, hosting your own server.
You can use the programmatic automatter,
you can use our UI,
as I've already mentioned.
Now, this is important.
You need to use the player
ID to track players.
Typically, when you make your own server,
it might be multi-platform or something.
You'll probably have
your own sign-in scheme.
Well, whatever those usernames are,
they need to be associated
with player IDs,
so you have to maintain that
association and keep track of them.
As you create matches,
you need to communicate these
matched players to your server.
And unfortunately,
we can't do much to help you other
than using our networking classes,
but you have to implement
your own networking.
So, a way to summarize is
that we'll hook you up,
but then you've got to provide the play.
So automatching using the programmatic
automatching API is really simple.
You make the match request,
you set minimum, maximum players.
You get the shared matchmaker,
and you go find players
hosted for match request.
It's a little different
than the other one.
In this case,
it's going to return a list of
player IDs rather than a GK match.
And you check those player IDs if
the count is greater than zero.
And if so, you can start your match.
If there's an error,
you have to handle the error.
Now for the matchmaking UI,
there's some small changes.
You make the matchmaker view controller.
You set hosted to yes,
and then you're good to go.
You present it.
However,
There's one little subtle thing here,
which is, let's say I go invite Jordan.
And so I go to that picker,
I choose Jordan, it sends him an invite.
He hits accept.
His side is going to go
sign him onto your server.
But I'm also going to get a
callback when he hits Accept,
called Did Receive
Accept from Hosted Player.
And when this comes in,
you need to go onto the server and
check that he's actually there.
And if you do so, call Set Hosted
Player Ready or Connected.
And if you do this,
on the UI where it says
Waiting for Jordan,
it'll go to Ready.
So this is how you provide feedback that
the person is actually on the server.
So this is a little thing to
help you that you have to deal
with that we can't do for you.
Now, on both sides, once they hit play,
you know, if there's any auto-matches,
it's going to go out
and do the auto-matches,
and when that's all done,
it's going to call did-find-players.
At this point,
you dismiss the view controller,
and you start the match.
By the way,
you should do dismiss the view
controller on the other version,
too.
It was just not on the slide.
So now we're going to talk
about peer-to-peer networking.
So peer-to-peer networking
is our features to handle
communications among players.
This allows you to send
data and receive data.
We have options for reliable
and unreliable communications,
and I'll get into that in a moment.
It also,
you need to handle player state changes.
You know,
we've already talked a little bit
about waiting for players to connect.
We can also handle
disconnection mid-game.
And we can even add players
to an existing game.
This is a new feature for iOS 5.
I also recommend you use host
selection to minimize network overhead,
and I'll explain what that
is a little more in a moment.
So the classes to use in
peer-to-peer multiplayer,
they're used in both the wait for
players stage and the play stage.
In wait for players,
you just observe state changes,
and this is the right time to perform
host selection if you choose to do so.
During the play stage,
you just send and receive data,
and you also listen to did change
state just in case people disconnect
and you've got to take some action.
So let's talk about sending data.
How many of you out there like games that
really lag when you play multiplayer?
Anyone?
Boo!
Yeah, I hate that.
How many of you like really fast,
responsive games?
Yeah.
So how do you do this?
Well, you want to keep data
size as small as possible,
and you want to minimize
update frequency.
What that means is you may have
written this game that updates
at 30 or 60 frames a second,
but you definitely don't want to send
updates to your peers at that rate.
That would be crazy.
And if you're sending updates,
you don't want to send your entire model.
Let's say we have a tennis -- go
back to the tennis game example.
If I'm running across the court
to hit that backhand or forehand,
you don't need to send every
animated frame of my motion.
You could just send a point
maybe every fifth of a second and
then let the game interpolate.
So that would both keep data size
small and minimize update frequency.
Now, let's get back to reliable
versus unreliable.
So if we're playing tennis,
and I just beat Jordan in a game, well,
it's one game in a set,
but when I send the notice that I won,
then I want to get an acknowledgment.
I don't want to go into the
start of the next game until
his device acknowledges it.
So that's what reliable means,
is that I send the data,
and I'll get an acknowledgment.
In contrast with unreliable data,
I won't get an acknowledgement for it.
It's just best possible delivery.
So where would that be useful?
Well, if I'm running across the court and
I'm sending the updates of position,
if I were to be reliable,
I'd be moving like this.
And so forth.
But with Unreliable,
I'm just sending smooth updates.
And if a packet gets dropped, fine,
the other side can interpolate.
Now, the code here shows how to
send data to all players.
What you do is you make an NSData.
You should pack it tightly with your,
you know, you know, when you populate it.
I recommend you don't use the, you know,
NSCoder, because they tend to, you know,
make a lot -- use up a lot of space.
This is a case where you need
to pack your data tightly.
And you just call
sendData to all players,
and then you just have
to handle the error.
This is our broadcast.
Now, if you want to send to a subset of
your players or do point-to-point,
you do the same thing,
but you just send data to players.
Receiving data is really easy.
You just implement this method
on your GK match delegate.
Did receive data, and you parse it.
Now let's talk about waiting
for players to connect.
You know, I've mentioned this
method did change state,
and how you can, you know,
observe different state changes.
But there's one little subtlety
here that I need to talk about,
which is expected players.
Now, this is a property on the match,
and it's the number of
players you're waiting on.
This is not all the players in the match,
but rather, let's say, you know,
my four-player example.
I invite Jordan to play,
and there's two auto-match players.
Well, in that case,
expected number of players is two.
And then as those players connect,
that'll count down one, zero,
and then we're ready to go.
So the way you handle this is if the
game has not already started and the
match make expected players goes to zero,
that's your sign that it's
time to start playing.
So this little code skeleton kind
of sketches this out for you.
Now some offline considerations.
Players may come and go.
I may be playing,
and as I've described before,
I take a phone call.
Somebody may lose link because
they drive through a tunnel,
or they may not like the
way the game is going,
and they may rage hit the
home button and go to home.
Well, it's important that your game
continues in all these cases
if there's remaining players,
so make sure you handle
the disconnect gracefully.
Now, a new feature for iOS 5 is we allow
it to reconnect for one-on-one games.
What you do is you -- and this is
an opt-in because we didn't want to
affect compatibility with older games.
So what you do is you implement
this method should re-invite
player on your match delegate,
and you just return true.
It's as easy as that.
We also allow you to add
players to an existing game.
So if I'm playing with Jordan, I say,
"Hey, you want to come join the fun?"
"Sure." Create a match request,
create a matchmaker view controller.
You call add players to match,
and that's illustrated here.
It's one new method,
and you can add players to the match.
So let's talk about being
a good network citizen.
We've talked quite a bit about
keeping network traffic to a minimum,
minimizing the size of the packets,
and only sending them
as often as you need to.
Another level of this is choosing
the right network strategy.
And we recommend you pick
a peer to act as the host.
So to illustrate this,
kind of the naive way to
implement peer-to-peer is
let's say we have four games,
one over there, one there, one there,
and each of them have a
copy of the game model,
and each of the players
is taking actions.
And they're just going to broadcast
their updates to each other.
Well,
they may get them in different orders.
They're going to get updates.
They're going to update their models.
But now the models may not be in sync,
you know,
because of different network latencies.
So you have to implement a coherency
protocol to keep the models up to date.
So more traffic.
So this is a mess.
It's really complicated
in your game logic,
and it uses a lot of bandwidth.
So there's a better alternative.
Pick one device.
Pick the one that's on Wi-Fi.
Pick the newest device.
Come up with your own metric.
Come up with your own way to pick one.
But pick one.
And make that sort of the truth.
Now, each of the peers can send
their updates to that master in
point-to-point communication.
And then the host can broadcast
its world updates to the peers.
This will at least cut your
network bandwidth in half
and most likely much more.
Thank you.
So to summarize peer-to-peer networking,
GK Match provides all the API.
You need to handle player state changes,
and I strongly encourage you
to be a good network citizen.
And another choice here is
consider going the extra mile
and hosting your own server.
So in-game voice chat.
So voice chat,
it's a really cool feature.
It adds a lot more
liveliness to your game.
If I'm playing tennis
and I just ace my friend,
if he's on the other side of the country,
it's just going to be pixels on a screen.
But if we're in there in voice chat,
I can go, "Yeah, I gotcha!" That's what
voice chat will give you.
So this allows players
to talk to each other,
and gets them more involved,
and enhances the sense of competition.
It's really easy to integrate,
and we handle the networking for you.
So some of the features of chat
include multiple name chats.
So let's say in our tennis
example we're playing doubles,
and we want to have one chat for
all the four players in the game,
but I also want to have a private
chat for the red team over here.
I want to be able to talk strategy
or maybe a flaw in their game.
So we allow you to do both.
And you can hear audio from whatever set
of chats that you wish at any given time.
Now, one limitation is the
microphone is routed to only
one of these chats at a time.
You can adjust the volume of
a chat or mute the player.
Now you handle player state feedback
via player state update handler.
So to set up voice chat,
you set up an audio session,
and the way you do this is
you get the shared instance.
You then set category,
audio/video session category,
play and record,
and then you set it as active.
So once you've made your sessions,
here's a little example of what
I just talked about with the tennis.
So we have a main chat and
my team chat for red team.
So what we do is we get voice chat
with name to get that particular chat.
We stop the main chat so that they
can't hear what I'm telling my partner,
and then you start the team chat.
At that point,
you call make team chat active to yes,
and this will route the
microphone to your team chat.
And another good piece of advice
here is add audio-visual feedback
that the microphone is active.
So you can say set --
self-indicate microphone active.
That's something you have to implement.
But you might put a microphone by
your picture in the game or something.
Now, handling player state changes.
You know, there's player connected,
disconnected, speaking, and silent.
These are here for you to
You know, make your UI even richer.
So if somebody's talking,
you can make little sound waves
coming out of their photo.
So it's really cool.
You should use this.
So things to consider
in multiplayer setup.
Well, you set this up in iTunes Connect,
and you set up this thing
called a compatibility matrix,
which will determine what versions
of your game can match with
other versions of your game.
And let's say I invite
Jordan to play Rochambeau.
You know, if I happen to have the
latest version and he doesn't,
then it'll check the
compatibility matrix,
and if they aren't compatible,
then it'll offer him an
update if it's available.
But I can only upgrade him
to the current version,
so if I'm playing some older version,
he's going to get the newer
version if they're compatible.
So, kind of to wrap up here,
some notes on testing.
When you get your game out to players,
the last thing you want them
to do is have a bad experience,
have stuff not work.
It takes a lot of work to
get the stuff to work well.
So you need to test on multiple devices,
iPads, iPhones, older iPhones,
newer iPhones.
You need to test on different accounts,
different networks.
You know, in this country,
Verizon versus AT&T, for example.
But test it around the world if you can,
because different carriers
may have very different quirks
that may affect your gameplay.
Now, testing on the simulator is limited,
so don't -- it's really not
going to get you very far.
You can't do invitations,
there's no voice chat,
and there are no push notifications.
So in summary,
multiplayer is a really popular feature.
It adds longevity to your app.
And I've talked about
peer-to-peer and hosted gaming.
You're going to learn about
turn-based in the next session,
so stick around for that.
It's awesome.
We talked about the basic flow,
how to use our provided matchmaker UI,
some cool things you
can do with auto-match.
We told you how we can help
you set up for a hosted server.
We've talked about peer-to-peer
communication and best practices.
I've shown you about voice chat.
Talked about compatibility and
upgrades during Game Center services.
And finally,
I've given my admonishment about testing.
Please test.
I want to love your game.
I want your game to go
to the top of the charts.
Good luck.
For more information,
talk to Alan Schaffer.
and related sessions.
You know,
they're going to be the essential game
technology talks repeated on Friday.
and Turn-Based Gaming coming after this.
And Nate is going to repeat
his session on Friday as well.
So please come to those.
So thank you very much.